# Breaking Down Bridge Security Models
## Types of security

- Economic ->  trust minimization / custody model of the bridge 
- Implementation ->  defensive building and planning
- Environmental -> 51% attacks on the underlying chains

## Types of bridges

- Locally verified (atomic swaps & fast liquidity systems)
- Externally verified (multisig, mpc, threshold, PoS, and validator bridges)
- Natively verified (light client header relays, rollup bridges)

In each case, the verification mechanism led to a tradeoff of at least ONE of three highly desireable properties:

- Trust-minimization: adding no economic security assumptions beyond those of the underlying chain.
- Generalizeability: supporting passing arbitrary data across chains.
- Extensibility: deployable to many heterogenous chains with minimal custom work.

## Economic security at Connext

We can define economic security as how much it would cost to currupt the system.

Connext uses AMB Bridges to pass messages around. AMBs, often called canonical bridges, are the current standard to bring tokens/data from one chain to a L2 or another L1. Examples are the Arbitrum-Ethereum bridge (totally trustless), or the Polygon PoS-Ethereum bridge (that incurs in some trust assumptions).  Using AMBs, the canonical bridges to move tokens to a chain, means we rely on the same security and trust minimization assumptions that the receiving chains do.

As we are using the native AMBs, there will be no added trust to the messaging of these systems in most cases. In a few, however, there are concessions:

- *Optimistic rollup delay bypassing*. Optimistic rollups rely on a delay window to ensure there is sufficient time to prove fraud on the rollup; this delay is parameterized per-system but is usually around 1 week. Instead of waiting for the duration of the delay, our contracts may use a shorter timeout in favor of capital efficiency. Inclusion of the message in the committed root will still be required, but there is a chance the rollup could rollback in the event of fraud. To address this, routers are encouraged to validate the underlying rollup state before bidding to ensure no fraud was committed.
- *Handling non-AMB connected domains*. In some cases, there is not a suitable AMB from mainnet to the given domain. This means a separate message-passing layer must be used, which will introduce the trust assumptions of that protocol. This is the case for the Binance Smart Chain, for example.

We will migrate our messaging layer to an optimistic brige design in the near future. Optimistic bridge designs rely on a set of watchers to watch the chain and report fraud.
The watcher + fraud proof pattern uses a single honest verifier assumption. In other words, optimistic bridges only require 1 of n parties in the system to correctly verify updates. The economical cost to attack the network is thus to corrupt every single verifier in the system.

## Implementation security at Connext

We can define implementation security as the complexity of implementing a system, and what our team security hygiene look like.

Implementation security is much riskier in bridges than in other applications because of contagion.

Our principles on implementation are as follows:

- General secure development: guarded launch, bounties, audits, and other security reviews (formal verification, fuzzing, etc.)
- Rate limits: bridges should automatically be halting or slowing down transactions if there is a large outflow of funds happening in a short period of time
- Time is on your side: delay + watcher model means you check offchain no fraud has occurred and taking on the risk. You can also do equivalency checks across chains, which isn't possible in a synchronous bridging pattern
- Reducing implementation scope and complexity — KISS
    1. Code that you run doesn't run the same on each chain
    2. Exists in light clients, ZK bridge, etc.
    3. Key takeaway — dependencies trickle up! if you're building in an already heterogenous environment, you have to make sure your implementation is as simple as possible

## Environmental security at Connext

We can define environmental securit as the ability for a bridge to withstand attacks on the underlying domains.

- Because we are able to disconnect messages from specific domains, we can maintain the security of high information integrity zones (Ethereum; not susceptible to 51% attacks) while supporting zones with growing information integrity security (new domains; smaller validator set; more susceptible to 51% attacks)
- Watchers help us maintain the security of ^^
- Using the same settlement layer is better because you're sharing economic security
- Introducing a delay can combat this effectively because you can check this easily offchain and halt the contagion
